if you want to do well with digital
marketing you don't have to reinvent the
wheel there's an easier approach hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down how to reverse
engineer the strategy of the most
successful competitors of yours in
digital marketing
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so let's first start with social media
for social media there's socialblade
socialblade is a tool that'll tell you
what's working for your competition and
what's not working for you so
socialblade will show you what's causing
your competitors to grow in social
accounts
for followers and you can actually look
at the post that they publish or the
video content that they post on that day
to see what's working for them and you
can see your own analytics to see what
days are causing you to get more
subscribers and less subscribers that'll
show you what's working for you and
what's not working for you
then you have not just analytics not
just analytics ends up helping you
understand what's working on instagram
from an engagement standpoint
instagram is a whole different beast
when it comes to social platforms out
there it's very different than most of
social networks because you can still
get tons of engagement linkedin is
another one where you can still get tons
of engagement but you want to see the
type of content that's just working not
just from hosts on your wall but also
for reals ig tvs
you want to know what's working and you
want to post more of that and you want
to see what's not working for
competitors so that way it doesn't mean
that you shouldn't test those pieces of
content but you should be
you know you should
go with caution when you're posting that
kind of content and just be like hey
this didn't work for a lot of my
competitors
what can i do better
and try to you know reinvent what
they're doing in a better way so that
way you have a better chance with that
kind of content and for the stuff that's
already working well you don't need to
reinvent the wheel you can just
replicate and just add your own spin on
that and then you have
sociality.io it's all in one social
platform it allows you to see all the
data on your competitors what works for
you what works for them and it does it
across all the social platforms out
there and that's kind of great because
in one place you can pretty much get
everything now let's dive into paid ads
how can you figure out what's working
for competitors well you have tools like
spyfu that specialize mainly just in
paid ads and it provides all the
reporting out there for competitor paid
ads and what's cool about spy field is
tell you the keywords that work for them
where they're spending money semrush
also does this ahrefs does this you can
also use uber cs to get a lot of these
insights my favorite one out of all of
them though is a facebook ad library
because the facebook ad library ends up
showing you
what's working for your competitors and
even if you're not running paid ads if
you see what's working for your
competitors for the stuff that they're
paying for chances are a lot of that
stuff will work for you even organic but
if you see stuff isn't working for your
competitors and they're paying for it
heck if they're spending money and
people aren't engaging with those ads
the chances are if you use that
organically it's not going to work for
you then you got big spy you can also
see what's working with competitors from
an ad perspective as well
as for seo i recommend using uber says
uber says breaks down everything from
hey what keywords your competitors
ranking for what keywords are your
competitors ranking for that you're not
ranking for who's linking to two three
of your competitors in the backlinks
opportunity report because someone's
willing to link to two three four of
your competitors the chances are they're
willing to link to you as well
another one of my favorite features in
uber says is just to create a project
it'll show you what's working for your
competitors on a regular basis literally
daily weekly basis and it'll end up
reporting that to you so you know what
changes you need to make not to just
stay on track with your competitors but
also beat your competition
from a content standpoint there's clear
scope phrase.i o and surfer seo they all
basically do the same thing which is
telling you what makes good pieces of
content when it comes from a keyword
perspective that you're trying to rank
for
now here's what i would look for that'll
really set you apart
if you're trying to beat the competition
i would actually go to google trends and
see what's booming in your space
what new keywords are trending because
if you beat your competition to the
punch and you go after those keywords
before them
time is on your side it'll actually make
it easier for you to outrank immune if
you don't have as many links especially
if you have the user metrics and great
metrics like time on site your page
speed loads fast people are getting what
they're looking for they're not clicking
the back button a lot and i'll also look
at the keywords that you're trying to
rank for are those keywords increasing
popularity over time are they decreasing
because if they're decreasing you don't
really want to focus your time and
effort on keywords that aren't really
going to be popular in the future
instead
you want that compounding effect by
going after terms that will just
continually get more and more popular
and google trends will show you that
that way you'll get more traffic with
the same amount of work
and if you do that you'll be better off
in the future now if you just need help
with this you want my team to just do it
all for you check out np digital if you
have any questions let's leave a comment
below if you enjoyed the video like it
share it tell the people about it thank
you for watching